Welcome to Data Governance 101.

Use Git Like a Pro 

Agenda
1. Overview of Git and Setting up Git and creating Repo
2. Basic commands (status, pull , push, commit, checkout)
3. Commits, Branches, PRs and Tags
4. Undo mistakes in Git
5. Interactive rebase , merging vs rebase , Git Aliases

Learn Git - commonly used commands

Command	Description
git --version	Displays the installed version of Git.
git status	Shows the current status of the working directory and staging area.
git add .	Stages all changes (new, modified, and deleted files) in the current directory.
git commit -m 'your message goes here'	Commits the staged changes with a message provided between the quotes.
.gitignore	A file specifying which files and directories to ignore in a Git repository.
git commit: This command is used to save your changes to the local repository.
-a: This flag tells Git to automatically stage files that have been modified and deleted, but new files you have not told Git about are not affected.
-m 'your message goes here': This flag allows you to include a commit message directly from the command line, without opening an editor.
So, git commit -am 'your message goes here' stages all modified and deleted files, and then commits them with the message you provided. It’s a convenient way to quickly commit changes without having to manually stage each file.

git remote -v
origin  https://github.com/all15575/learn-git.git (fetch)
origin  https://github.com/all15575/learn-git.git (push)

git branch -M main Change the name of the branch to main

git push -u origin main Push the local commits to the remote repository.
The command git push -u origin is used to push your local commits to a remote repository. Here’s a breakdown of what each part does:
git push: This command uploads your local repository content to a remote repository.
-u: This flag sets the upstream (tracking) reference for the current branch, meaning future git push commands can be run without specifying the remote and branch.
origin: This is the default name for the remote repository that you are pushing to.
So, git push -u origin pushes your changes to the remote repository named origin and sets it as the default upstream repository for the current branch.